---
slug: "projects/DRC-2023"
nameOfClass: "projects-items pastprojects"
title: "Droid Racing Competition 2023"
added: "2022-29-11"
video: "false"
listName: "🤖 /DRC-2023"
popupImageSrc: "present_robot.jpg"
popupImageAlt: "an early prototype for the DRC-2023 competition, redesigned and refactored!"
popupLiveLink: "https://twitter.com/QUT/status/1679271733004578818"
popupGithubLink: "https://github.com/woflydev/odyssey_cnn"
techIcons: [
        "unity",
        "tensorflow",
        "python",
        "cplusplus",
        "react",
        "tailwindcss",
      ]
---

<style>
.customimg {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
  width: 25%;
}
</style>

### Results

After weeks of preparation and fine-tuning of software, our Droid Racing Challenge team travelled to the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) to compete in the National Droid Racing Competition. This time, our simplified and reworked approach finally paid off, achieving a record time of 30.44 seconds around the track. We were crowned 1st Place, and received the Best Overall Droid award. We're honoured to be the youngest ever team to win 1st place. Thank you so much to the <a href="https://qutrobotics.com/droid-racing-challenge/" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><span>Droid Racing Competition 2022</span></a> team for making this fun event possible!

See one of our runs here: <a href="https://photos.app.goo.gl/apWUW5tePbo4QnF27" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><span>link</span></a>

### The Challenge

After our first experience competing at a national level at the <a href="https://qutrobotics.com/droid-racing-challenge/" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><span>Droid Racing Competition 2022</span></a>, 
we decided to go back to the drawing board and redesign all the electronics, hardware, and software piplines from scratch. We also upgraded our wheels, allowing for higher top speeds and eliminating the need for reliance on an Arduino board!

As with previous DRC challenges, the main goal is to navigate a fully autonomous car around a taped track using nothing but computer vision.

Some of the upgrades that we are using to develop the vehicle are:
<ul>
<li>- Quantized neural networks based on JetPack, simultaneously trained using the Unity Engine's ML-Agent API.</li>
<li>- Redesigned custom PCBs for control over robot efficiency.</li>
<li>- Simulated 3D environments with real-world driven data for neural network training.</li>
<li>- Unity3D's new and emerging Data-Oriented Technology Stack to allow for subscene loading and entity component system integration.</li>
<li>- Redesigned body and power supply to ensure redundancies and mitigate timeloss due to hardware error.</li>
<li>- Better processor! We secured ourselves an NVIDIA Jetson Nano, capable of running our control statemachine at 120hz.</li>
</ul>